So it's a weird world we live in. It's a strange universe.
I call ourselves a conscious conglomerate of cells assembled by atoms, manufactured by molecules
designed by DNA, forged by fusion via stellar supernovae.
I mean, this is a crazy story, but every night you have to go to a tribal council to sacrifice
and legitimately think about who you would kill, who you would you be willing to actively kill
a tribal council. It's like basically sitting in heaven looking at all the people you killed
and then asking them for forgiveness and then to still give you a million dollars or a million
rent. It did spark a memory for me, though. I've only actually shared this with two other people
in my life, so this is opening up a bit. If you think that there's somebody else or something
else controlling it, it is very eye-opening. I remember feeling so free. That day when I
left the temple, I remember just thinking, this is the most free of ever felt amount,
just pure ecstasy of freedom. Any decision I make from here on out is my own decision.
And I will bear the responsibility, whether it's praise or blame,
I take it. It's ultimately my fault. There's no one to blame for this. There's no one to praise for
this except, and I think it's quite a freeing and yet terrifying. Possibly, I can't call it a
quarter-life crisis or whatever, but it's a very young life crisis. Dr. Tevin Naidu is a medical
doctor, philosopher and ethicist, born in South Africa of Indian descent. He attained his bachelor
of medicine and bachelor of surgery degree from Stellenbosch University and his master of philosophy
degree cum laude from the University of Pretoria. His academic work focuses on theories of consciousness,
computational psychiatry, phenomenological, psychopathology, value space, practice, moral
luck, addiction, and the philosophy and ethics of science, mind, and mental health. He has a
television background as the host of two popular South African shows as a castaway on Survivor
South Africa. He is currently the host of the Mind, Body, Solution podcast. Tevin, thank you so much
for coming on. Thank you so much for having me. It's an absolute honor to be here. Thanks for that
wonderful introduction. I mean, you did it yourself, my friend. That's your background.
We got it together quite well. They make me sound better than I think I.
I've done a lot of research. I'm a big fan of your channel. Yeah, I mean, I've loved it. I
discovered it a little over a month ago, I think, and I've, I mean, over half of your episodes I've
listened to and I plan to just absorb the whole library soon. I'd love to start off kind of early
because one of the one of the really core pieces of content was actually someone else's interview
of you, Dr. Tony Nader's interview with you, which I loved. And one piece that really piqued my interest
was when you're talking about how early you started questioning things, asking the big questions,
metaphysics, etc. And you said this around the age of nine or so, I believe you said. And I love
if you could just give us some context around that and what that was like. Yeah, no, I mean, it's,
it's, it's such a strange world. I think it's, I mean, I was just discussing this with my girlfriend
and one of my friends today. The universe is such an intriguing place. There's so much going on.
I mean, someone always comes to mind is Charles Darwin. I think about the years he spent on the
Galapagos Islands just traveling and inflicting views with his own theory and his religious beliefs
and how he spent so many years trying to convince himself, not others, but himself,
that what he believed religiously just did not correspond to the data. And for me, when I was
a kid growing up in South Africa, it's very, very multicultural, very diverse. We've got 11 official
languages. There are so many different cultures and backgrounds. And I mean, people often say
Cape Town, when you're in Cape Town, you feel like you're in the rest of the world is, is just
so many different people all coming together. And me personally, part of my family, very much
Muslim, traditional Indians, the other half in the traditional Indians, then you've also got
Christian, traditional Indians, but still South African at heart. So I consider myself more South
African than I do in India, because we've been here for around seven, eight generations. Oh,
wow. Westport is endangered laborers by Brits. And then at some point, obviously,
off post-apartheid sort of built their way up and made their way into society. But so the cultural
dynamic is very intriguing at that point, because I have my Muslim best friends and cousins on the
one side of my Christians, best friends and cousins on the one side of my Tamil, Hindu, everybody is
all just integrating so well. And none of the ideas corresponded. And I found that very frustrating.
I felt that when I went to school, when I read books, when I went to science, for example, class,
was always some sort of a consistency with the story. And if something did change, which it often
does, science consistently replaces older science with new data sciences. These stories sort of
set in stone. And I didn't like that. I didn't like the fact that whatever the person said was
the gospel of the truth. I felt that, I mean, channels call the truth. I felt like if I had to
look for radicality and truth, this is probably not where I'm going to look, because I had this
bad tendency of asking questions and I would often get kicked out of temple while I get kicked out of
the mosque. So when that happens, you start to question, I mean, is this really the story you
want to be told? Are you being told the story or taught the story? What's the difference? And
at that point, I stopped. I became completely atheist. I was nine. I remember I left the
temple. I remember being so frustrated at that point, I actually became quite anti-theist. I
became very much anti-religion. I remember being so irritated by this whole story,
like that people are so convinced by these ideas. And as the time went by, I became a lot more
conservative with that view. I'm no longer anti-religion, anti-theist. I think everyone's
entitled to their own views. I respect them all. I think that at the time it was more my own
hatred towards the person who spoke to down to me at the time that caused this almost
neo-Atheistic view. You know, the sort of Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens,
type of Sam Harris annual dinner type of hatred. And that's slowly changed. I mean, I have huge
respect for Christian scholars, theologians, and even gurus, priests alike. I mean, to me,
it's changed over time. It's an interesting dynamic. It started when I was nine, which was very
young because many of my friends thought I was crazy. Of course. Yeah, that's so young to be
questioning. You must have been a curious kid. Do you remember, was it a gradual thing?
Was there a moment in time where something snapped? I think it was always brewing. I think my dad
always told me to watch Discovery Channel, National Geographic. I mean, he forced me to
sort of watch this when I'm watching Cartoon Network. He changed the channel. That's good.
In hindsight, I mean, at the time, I obviously didn't like it. But when I look back, I think,
I mean, those are the stepping stones. Sort of those curiosity builders that started asking
the deeper questions within because often growing up, I wanted to be an astrophysicist and
I've always wanted to be an astrophysicist. I remember just getting 100% for mathematics
every year, all the time, just thinking it's going to happen. And then as you get older,
you make the more conservative choice. And at the time for me, it was to look after my family,
my peers, and Indian cultures. I mean, becoming a doctor is sort of pretty much an expectation.
And I think I sort of fell into the trap. But very great. I enjoy it. I love it very much.
I went for the conservative choice, but astrophysics in space, just trying to understand
the nature of this universe. It's an incredibly complex system. How does it all function? What
is the purpose of all of this? What is the meaning behind all of this? I think it intrigues a lot
of people. And I think religion does provide people with those, it provides us with those answers.
But for me, it wasn't enough. I wanted to find out for myself. And that's what sort of stirred me
towards that. My parents were never that religious anyway. They were very cultural. We often celebrated
Diwali or the Hindu festivals. We went to prayers. I still go to many of them. But yeah,
they never really ingrained the religious doctrine within. So they often allowed me to do whatever
I wanted. When I was nine, I told them I'm done. They were fine. It was like wow. That was just like
my goodness. That's so cool. Well, it did spark a memory for me though. If I may, I know I'm
interviewing you, but if I may share something, I've only actually shared this with two other
people in my life. So this is opening up a bit. It's not like crazy big, but I remember because
you said around nine and I was around eight or nine years old. I remember I was definitely in
the third grade. So whenever that's around them. And I remember the moment when
I was in my childhood bedroom, a lit bedroom, I was looking through the doorway into the hallway
that was dark. And all of a sudden it was like something changed. It's like the top down control
became apparent. If that makes any sense. I didn't know the word agency at the time, but
it was like oh, I have control over this. It wasn't solely the ether of my childhood, let's say.
But it was like a moment. And from then on, I remember going to school the next day and being
like oh my goodness. Everything just clicked at a critical time. It gives you that power,
that sort of autonomy you've been looking for. Waiting for the autonomy. I mean,
everybody just craves it. Everybody wants it, but he really gets it. If you think that there's
somebody else or something else controlling it, it is very eye-opening. I remember feeling so free.
That day when I left the temple, I remember just thinking this is the most free I've ever felt
about. Just pure ecstasy of freedom. Any decision I make from here on out is my own decision.
And I will bear the responsibility, whether it's praise or blame, I take it. It's ultimately
my fault. There's no one to blame for this. There's no one to praise for this. Except me.
And I think it's quite a freeing and yet terrifying. Possibly, I can't call it a
quarter-life crisis or whatever, but it's a very young life crisis.
A one-tenth life, a one-twentieth life crisis. Hope you live to go into it a long time.
Huh, that's so interesting. So then from there, the progression,
you said astrophysics was a big passion of yours. You got through high school,
you obviously, I'm assuming you were a great student, you know, never causing any trouble in
the classroom. It's on top, and then I had archaeology as one of the others. Oh, interesting.
Qing is one of the others. What was the other one? Teaching, just general teaching. Most likely
mathematics or physics. Oh, wow. Very cool. I mean, archaeology, I mean, I loved it so much.
I speak very highly. I mean, Darwin's one of my favorite scientists of all time.
Just going back, I mean, Stephen Jay Gould, when I think about the work they did back in the day,
I mean, it's some of the best things I've seen. Absolutely. It's incredible.
Cool. So that's a good point. I was very much in the sciences, very, very science-oriented.
And then as you get older, you start becoming more philosophical. You're scientific.
Start to question those as well. So at nine-year-old, then she had to change when he turned 19,
now 29. I'm currently 29, but over time, things have changed every sort of decade or so.
Sure. And what made, like, when did you decide you wanted to become a doctor?
It was always one of the choices. It was something I've always loved. But the main reason,
a lot of people find this completely absurd and ridiculous is I was watching House and I love House.
Yeah, great show. I remember I watched it as a kid, too. Yeah, sure.
Probably my favorite series of all time, because I've watched it so many times.
There's eight seasons. I've watched all of them back to front, possibly like around eight times.
And I know it's a lot of...
Holy shit.
It was before mid-school days.
Yeah, yeah, a lot of time. A lot more time back then.
I sort of made the excuse in mid-school that this is me studying.
As if.
Always, whenever someone asks, it's always Lupus. It's always the first.
Lupus or Sacoidosis, the other one.
Oh, Sacoidosis. I forgot that. Yeah, okay.
Those are the... So I was watching House. I remember my mom running down the stairs when I was at home.
And I was like, you got in for mid-school. And at the time I'm watching House,
I look at the TV and I look at her and I just think, and I just say, let's go. Let's just do it.
It was one of those... There's both the moment thoughts where I just didn't even think about astrophysics.
I didn't think about anything else. I just... Let's just do it.
And when I got to mid-school, I realized it's nothing like House.
Very different. Yes.
And how would you describe your experience in mid-school?
Super difficult. School was very well. I got to mid-school. And I think this is where cultural
dynamics in South Africa play a big role because when from a school where school had a majority,
800 black students, in South Africa, we refer to mixed-race people as colored. And this is
not politically incorrect within this country. So we refer to mixed-race people as colored.
So there were about 800 blacks, 200 colors, about 200 Indian people, no white people at all.
And then I went from that school to Stellenbosch University, which is a majority Afrikaans white
university. It was a complete cultural shock for something I never anticipated. I mean,
I did Afrikaans as a language in high school and primary school, but always sort of learned it
with a pitch of salt, like thinking I'd never use this. It's not going to be something I'm going
to be using. And I get to Stellenbosch where it kept on 75% of the population speak Afrikaans
and I was completely shocked. I couldn't believe it. And this is the first language. So it was very
surprising. I immediately felt homesick. Just when into sort of a depression, I would say very
dark. I would go to lectures to fall asleep and go home and self-study because I just couldn't,
they were speaking Afrikaans. I couldn't understand what they were saying. What they were
saying, I couldn't understand the lecture. So I just, it was very, very difficult. But over time,
you get used to it. It's not that bad. You start to fall in love with it slowly. Trauma starts to
become like a, it's almost like a toxic relationship. You hate it, but you love it. You keep going back.
So I kept going back. He's got better. I slowly fell in love with it.
Cool. But it was difficult, I'm sure. And then you, I mean, you can imagine yourself being in a
war-drowned and guys just talking to you in a different language, sort of talking down to you
as well, because he sort of assumes I don't understand the language. And then you don't
realize he's asking you the question he's asking. And this is you in a war-drowned,
academic war-drowned for Marx. You're getting graded on this. And then you put a mark because
you just don't really know. It was very, very frustrating. I sort of built up a little bit
of anger within me. I remember not wanting to learn Afrikaans just to spite them. But I learned
it eventually anyway. Yeah, you had to. You had to. I had to pass. I had to figure this
word thing out. But Africa is so politically complex. You can imagine, I mean, 11 official
languages. Afrikaans is one of them. English is one of them. That means there's, I and other
official languages left. I used to speak Zulu quite a lot back when I was a kid.
And then in Cape Town we have what's known as Isikosa. So there's so many different languages.
Difficult to learn them all. Sure, yeah. You have to just cover what you can and move forward
from there. So you could with some of them. Yeah, right. Yeah, gesture and get by that way.
You get sort of the vernacular, you get the gist of it. And you can get through a conversation.
Sure, sure. So you're in med school. And how did you get into this television media space?
Like what was, what was that path? This is my first time actually, just by the way,
because it's just doing an interview where I'm integrating all these lives together.
Because I've either done specifically television stuff, and then I've either done academic medical
or mind body solution content. It's kind of intriguing to have this discussion. It's my
first time. So for me, it was, I was in high school, I remember. I think I was about six foot
one at a time, height. And I met this model agent who told me I should try and just do some modeling
to earn some extra cash. And obviously, I didn't grow up in a very rich area. It wasn't very wealthy.
And I thought, this is a great way to make money. And it was. Awesome. Great.
And then at some point, I entered this into the state of South Africa. I was, I think about 17.
The agent said, enter the competition, do this, you might win it. You do go on to bigger things.
And I did. And then I ended up winning it. And I went on to
then host a television show in South Africa. And it's one of South Africa's most popular
Asian lifestyle television shows. So millions of views every week. And I was fortunate enough,
it's called Eastern Mosaic. They contacted me because they saw me when they saw the competition,
which is pretty cool. And asked me to join team and I did. And at that point, I think
was 17 when I won the competition, 18 sorry, when I won. And when I won it, and then afterwards,
I went on to TV show and I was in my first to second year of med school.
So around then I've been living, I've started living this double life. It's like
entering two different realms. I mean, you mentioned in your emails, Joseph Campbell,
I mean, a hero's journey type of thing, you know, that call to adventure. This is,
this was it, you know, because I really started this medical journey. And
then I got approached by this other world that was completely different.
Yeah. For a guy who's homesick, really irritated with the way things are going and not really
happy with where he is. This was like a blessing. This is completely, this was fun to travel. I got
to teach because I wanted to be a teacher this whole time. So presenting to me became this platform
where I could teach people, speak to an audience. And I think I really enjoyed that. And I loved
lecturing. I loved giving talks. So it was, it was pretty cool because it got to then
use a lot of these hobbies to get to sort of something that made money and help pay med school
fees and help do a lot of things for my own lifestyle in general. And then at that point,
the show was doing very well. We ended up getting another show and it all just rippled from there.
I mean, I kept doing TV shows, but then I was sort of living this double life.
And it started becoming a little difficult. I mean, I'd go from a 36 hour shift at the hospital
and then I have to film an entire event the next day, the television show. And so I'd be
exhausted. I remember I liked it. It was completely dark and like sunk and I'd look
tired all the time. So it was like a chronic fatigue. I loved it. It was too exciting to stop.
It was almost like being on drugs. I love this energy that you just keep wanting to get addicted
to the dope bike. And and back then I had a lot of social media. I was using, I was actively
engaging with the community. So that constant feedback started really feeding the ego, I would
say. And I mean, I enjoyed it at the time. But then at some point I decided there's got to be a
limit. I have to either continue with one or continue with the other. And I chose the medical
and science background. How did you make that choice? It was difficult. I mean, I always would
have. It was it was never and it was never me actually thinking of giving that. But it was more
that you get tired of the, I don't want to son, you get tired of it. So it's almost like a fake
world. It's kind of like a curated world that you start getting a bit but frustrated. You're
tired of the fact that everybody has this facade. They're not showing the true colors. They're not
being themselves. Whereas in medicine, people are being, lack of better terms, I'm assholes to you.
Which was nailing you, just telling you how bad you are at this thing. No filter, absolutely no
concern of whether he hurts me or not. And and I found that a little bit better for somebody.
Felt like I'd rather know exactly where I stand with you versus going into this big event with
everyone just being fake the whole time, pretending like they love you, pretending like
they care constantly in this environment. You don't really know how to read people. You,
for someone who loves psychology, philosophy, you want to know how people are thinking. You want
to know why they think a certain way. I mean, in this act, it's sort of like it's constantly
acting. And I didn't really like it. And then the politically correct, started growing over time.
I had my own views on that. And I, it's, it's sort of becoming too much. I felt that
being, being online, not being able to speak your mind, not being able to talk and openly
and have discourse, which is the main reason why I started MindBodySolution was
having a platform to provide a lot of these people, have theories they're afraid to actually
share sometimes, because of the repercussions. So I was always a fan of having that freedom of
speech, trying to be able to say what you want to say, and without offending people with intent.
I mean, context is always important. Content is not relevant without considering the context it's in.
If you, if you just take content for what it is, that's, that just doesn't work. Someone can say
something. It can mean a completely different thing in a different contextual situation. So
I found that very, very frustrating about the television slash online world where context
is completely eliminated and possibly eradicated on the scenario. And yeah, it became easier at
that point. Had it not become that way, I think I might have stayed longer. But the more I watched
the way it started to go that route, I decided to take a step back. I put my mouth too much. So I
think context is very important. Sure. And it's funny because this is part of the reason why these
long form discussions I think are so popular and has become, have become popular in less,
you know, 10 years or so, is that we get the time to have the whole, the context is,
you know, it's built in there. And on TV, it's like, give me your sound bite, give me 30 seconds,
make it quick, because we got a mistake. What's that? I missed it. Like a 10 second clip of
making a mistake and just wait a lot more to say they stopped it just not a fan of that.
Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I agree. I think it is. I'm personally, I'm just getting into it. You know,
this is sort of the beginning of a new chapter for my channel. I want to do some more long form
stuff like this. And because I think it's fascinating. Oh, thank you. Oh, geez, stop.
Flatir really got you very far. So I appreciate that. I mean, you are, but I mean, I can tell
one of the things that comes through on your channel, which I will get to in a little bit,
because I think I'll be the main focus of the discussion, is how polished you are. I mean,
how clearly, how clearly you have your what, five, six years of TV experience? I mean,
yeah, but more than that, I think like, yeah, about, I started in 2012 or so, and I ended in around
18, 19. And what I did, but then I did, obviously, I mean, as you know, Survivor and the other shows.
Oh, yeah. Different reasons and different circumstances around that. Well, since you brought
it up, let's talk some Survivor. Survivor, one of my favorites. If not house, it's going to be Survivor.
Yeah, if you have to choose, your on a deserted island, which one do you go with?
I think I'll go with, if I'm on a deserted island, I think I'll go with Survivor at that point.
So I would say the same thing, but then you're also, you're in this vicious loop where you're
on an island watching a show about an island. You might want to escape from that.
Especially if I'm watching a season where I'm on, because then it's going to feel very much like
inception. Oh, absolutely. Were you on two seasons or one season? Two. So we recently just,
this year, had our first South African return season. So it was pretty much an all-star season.
And that was very, very cool. Went home too soon again.
Yeah, that is so cool. And what made you apply for Survivor? Or did they reach out to you?
Did they see you? Like, how did that work? So no, no, no. So I love Survivor. I've been a fan
since I was probably around nine as well. I mean, I think there's one climate in 2000.
Oh, yes. The original one. Richard Hatch, that season? Yes. I think it was 2000 or 2001,
which meant I was around seven, actually, seven or eight. And I started watching from then. And
it's a family show. My mom loves it. My sister loves it. We've been watching it as a family
since then. And I often save, I used to save seasons, come in a different city to watch it when
I get back. I download and get back to the other city to watch it with them. And I've been a fan
for such a long time. I love the psychosocial behavioral dynamics of it all. For me, it's very
much a biopsychosocial game. Medicine, we focus on a biopsychosocial model. It's extended itself to
biopsychosocial spiritual, biopsychosocial cultural. But when you think of Survivor, it's not just
a television show to me. To me, it's more for pretty much what Jeff Probst says. It's a social
experiment, except I think it's a lot more complex than I think. I think there's a lot of dynamics
behind the game that they can dictate how people behave in real life and how people perceive themselves
within the game dictates a lot about what they don't know they're doing real life. Because
people have this image of almost when you enter this game, it's not reality. You're almost taken
away from reality because they build this box where you can behave a certain way based on the rules
that they've set out. This box just so happens to be within the real world that you've always been
apart of. So you can never really escape reality. So a lot of people who have this perception that
when you leave the real world and enter Survivor, you can be an asshole, you can be a dick, you can
be these people. I don't think that's true. I think the way you behave, yes, if you want to play a
character, entertainment purposes, very enough, I'm all about that. I did that my first season.
Very mischievous, very much the naughty guy trying to put people against each other. The second time
I played, I was a lot more mature. I was a bit four years older. But then I wanted to play more
like the doctor that I am. And it comes across on the show. You see myself in the first season,
very naughty. She was lying, making up stories. And I went through this intention. I told them,
like, listen, I come from a television background. I'm here because I love the show and I want to
make the show better. Mangle here is not just about me. It's about less make South African
Survivor as cool as it can be. At this point, Survivor had just finished season five, and season
six got taken over by a new production company called Afrocons. And this production company is
filled with massive fans, just huge, like big Survivor fans. One of the producers, he's like
one of the, he's got a tattoo of the Survivor staff on his arm. His name is LB. One of the
biggest fans out there. So I got onto the show at the right time because this group of people
decided to make it just like the US version. And it became one of the best seasons internationally.
I mean, at some point, people didn't know of international ranking. And it comes out second,
season six of South Africa. So it's Philippine. I think one of the US seasons was first and
second was Survivor South Africa Philippines. And then thereafter is an Australian season.
I can't remember which US season it was. But yeah, at the time, it was because of how good
the production crew managed to edit the show and make it so realistic. It stayed true to everyone's
characters. It gave enough content, of context, which is also quite cool. Not just those snippets
to create characters. We sort of had the freedom to make our own characters. And nobody comes there
to act. Nobody's there. It's not scripted. It's not an act. It's not a play. We do everything's
legit. So the big thing is, is though, if you want to play a character as a fan, we'll do it.
So if I if I love Richard Hatch, for example, I'm more likely to then play a little bit villainous
and I'll be a little bit more than someone else. It's quite a fascinating scenario.
Absolutely. What was it? I mean, what was the most surprising thing about it? What
what didn't you expect or what was when you actually got there? You know, day one,
everyone must just be here on the moon or it's just a panoply of emotions. But what was different
about the experience? What surprised you, I guess? I mean, just for some context, I mean,
I don't think I answered your question. When I saw that Survivor South Africa season six,
because this has been years in our sense, he's in fine. We haven't heard about it for a while.
So then they announced that season six happening. And the day before the auditions were finished,
one of my best friends at the time, she sent me a message to say that survivors happening again
and how much you love it. Don't you want to enter? But I just finished a 26 hour shift at the hospital
and I sent a video of myself in scrubs. I think it quickly got home. I made a quick
recording on my cell phone just saying, listen, I love this game. I'm going to be a villain.
Just point blank. I'm going to be a villain. It's hell of a background. I'm going to entertain
and just lie sheets, steal, do whatever it takes to make sure the audience
and the tribe mates are eating out of the palm of my hands. I had this whole thing prepped.
It worked. They called me back and they said, okay, they knew that I was from television,
obviously, but they actually asked me, am I going to come as the television presenter?
Or am I going to come as Dr. Naidu? And I said, I'm coming as Dr. Naidu. So let's forget about
the fact that I've ever done anything on television, coming as someone who has a background in
psychology, neuroscience, medicine, and I'm going to play mind games. This was my character. I was
a really curated character. And so you get to Philippines, fast forward a couple months later,
and you have to isolate in a room for about 10 days. It's so crazy. You start losing
a bit of yourself during that period. Why do you isolate? What do you mean, like before the game
starts? Yeah, yeah. And this is pre-COVID as well. So it's a good way to get everyone onto the
same country without seeing each other. So you get one contention at a time, because you might,
because especially in a place like South Africa, let's say you're in Durban or Cape Town, you might
know the person who comes across at the airport. So you'd rather avoid that scenario. Let's let them
go through one to many and not allow them to actually leave the hotel room. So you have to stay
inside. It's horrible. That's probably one of the worst experiences. Have you ever watched
Mindfield with his name? He's a YouTuber. He's got this show called Vsauce, Michael.
Yes, it's been a while, but yeah, yeah, of course. He's got this YouTube show called Mindfield,
where he sits in a room for about, in a black room with nothing to do for about 10 days. I can't
remember exactly. But that's what it felt like. You're stuck in this room. No clocks, no watches,
cell phones, nothing. So no, my room specifically had no window as well, because it was covered by
some sort of a dark alley that had a roof over it. So I couldn't tell whether it was night or day.
I had no inkling of what time it was ever. The only thing that can be sort of on track was each
time a meal came to me. And it messed me up. I remember getting off because I had all these
notes for all the cool things I was going to do on the island. And day one, I completely
forgot about it all. I went there just, I hadn't slept for like three days before coming onto the
game. And I think it was seven days. I spent seven days in the hotel, not 10, but seven days of just
not knowing what time it is, not knowing what's going on. It's quite rough. Weird. Weird setup for...
It gets to you. And I think in the second time, because of COVID, it was another, it was just
the same. You had to stay in the hotel room. At least it was light. There was sunlight in this
hotel room. So much better experience. But still, it gets to you because you then play
the game within your head too much. And you can be your own worst enemy, especially in a game like
Survival, where you're completely paranoid all the time. You don't trust anyone. You really don't
know what to expect. You get out there and you realize that they're all doing the same thing
you're trying to do, which is lie to you. And you realize you're not that good at it. You think
you are. You think you are. Yeah, right. But you're not that good at it. Because you're a good
guy. You're not doing that in the real, you're not getting practice in your real life. You know.
I'm going, they're trying to put on a show. That's what the second time I tried to be a bit more
like myself, which then became bad thing anyway, because then I got to seeing this guy who's in
charge of the truck, who look up to me, people are constantly asking me for advice, who want to
know what to do. And then you get labeled with a different label, which is he's winning material,
someone who's going to possibly with it. It's a crazy, it's a, it's a wonderful, I agree. It's
a wonderful game. I think I mentioned to you in our correspondence before that it's funny because
I might not be here. We might be having this conversation unless I applied for a survivor
like five years ago. And I got, I got to the final stages. I did the whole thing, you know,
you're in the hotel room, you can't talk to the other contestants there, but you know,
there, everyone else is around, you know, you know who the people are. And I mean,
it's a while, it is for a week, you know, you're, you're, it's, yeah, it's kind of messing with
your head. And I did a bunch of crazy stuff. I would show up to breakfast and a robe and a crazy
outfit and stuff like that. And just like trying to create attention for myself, you know, trying
to create like some intrigue around me. And I get to the interviews with like the casting person
and Jeff Probst, you know, which is like, whoa, holy shit, it's Jeff. And they'd be like, hey,
everyone's talking about you, you know, you're causing a stir. Like, and I was like, yeah,
I was like, that's what I will do on the show. Put me on and I will do, I will do stuff, you know,
to be interesting. But yeah, and I had, oh my God, I was so into it. I like had,
I have an 80 page Google doc of like survivor strategies, you know, all this stuff to do.
I completely agree. I did the same thing. I had this huge with a whole bunch of notes.
I also put on like, because I was thinking, I went into it and
at the end of the whole process, I thought to myself, that's the best I could possibly do.
I was like, I have no, I left it all in the field, you know, I was like, that's all I got.
And I thought I did, I did as good as I could. And so I was like, the turnaround between when
they tell you you're going to go on and when you go is a month, I don't know, it's quick. So I,
my thought process was like, okay, you're going to lose a lot of weight when you're on the island.
But you don't want to, you don't want to like, eat a ton. You don't want to put on like,
10 pounds right before you go. Because your body is used to that. So when you're
fasting, it's going to be way worse. So I thought, what I'll do is I'll put on like 20 pounds a few
months before, get my body accustomed to that weight, and then fast as I approach the date.
But I didn't get it. So I just put on a bunch of weight.
That's, that's almost exactly what happened to me. Because when I, I first, I remember for the
second time, I got so ripped. I exercise and train every day and got covered. Then I got the flu.
Then I got covered again. So I ended up eating and just laying in bed for the next two months
before I got into survival. And all I remember seeing on TV was me just with this huge tummy
to all unfit. And I thought like, I was, I was hoping I'd be a bit more fit for this tribe.
Luckily, I was still manageable.
Whatever. I mean, you can always frame it. What's funny is,
if you are the ripped guy, then you have like, you know, a target sort of, you know, survivor,
you know, challenge threat or whatever. So you can always kind of work it in a way.
That's exactly what I did. I used it to my advantage. I was like, they aren't all more ripped guys,
let's go.
And it's so interesting too, like the, I love it for like the game, the game theory behind it,
you know, all this kind of stuff. But what it always, what it ends up coming down to, it's,
you know, the emotional, you know, you're at the mercy of the jury at the end. And their decisions
are, in my opinion, from what I've seen, it's like 95% emotional, you know, did they like you
or not? You know, it's what it always comes down to.
It's so difficult to remove your emotions from the game. In fact, that plays the biggest role.
You're correct. You're 100% right. Because I remember when, when I got voted out, when I got
home, I thought to myself, the person, like one of the people who voted me out, I thought I'd
never vote for that person. Even though I knew that person was playing the best game. Wow.
When I thought about it, I was that person, I was that guy who always said, I'd never do that.
I would never allow my emotional judgment to hurt the rational thinking behind my
mind. And it happened. That's how strong the game gets you. You're broken down to core. Literally
just dirty, hungry, tired, burnt, scarred, bruised, bleeding, starving. There's no food,
you're losing weight at a rapid pace. The first time I lost eight kilograms in 18 days.
And that's too much weight so fast. It's not healthy. Sure. It's absurd. But I still remember
thinking when I often, one of the things I said when I interviewed for, when I tried to audition
for the game was think of survivor as real life and actually think about it philosophically.
You are placed in the scenario where you're forced to lie, cheat, steal, whatever, make an
environment, create a social structure, try and create society. And thereafter, think of it as
a tribe, because we are a tribe. And every night you have to go to a tribal council to sacrifice
person. So think of it that way and legitimately think about who you would kill, who you would
be willing to actively kill. Tribal council that way. Really give that some thought because that's
primarily what's happening every night. We're actively going to kill someone. So you have to,
so I even approach a lot of people that next, the second time I played with this argument,
I was like, if you are willing to kill me versus this person, really, that's what you're doing at
this point. Really give it some thought philosophically. Take the game for its core meaning. Because I
know when, I think it was Mark Burnett, who took over from Charlie Parsons, author rights. Charlie
Parsons was a Brit, I think is Brit. And he started off with this shot. I think it was in Sweden,
of Switzerland, where he got this bunch of guys together and he put them on this island and he
sort of realized that this has potential to be something intriguing. Because fundamentally,
that's the core of the game. It's this whole psychosocial element where you have to get people to
forgive you for putting them on the other side. And that's so difficult. Unless you're a really,
really nice person, you're never going to get forgiveness. It's going to be ancient.
Wow. I haven't heard these kinds of framings before around, or maybe it's been a while,
around your sacrifice, human sacrifice. And then at the end, you're asking for forgiveness from
the tribe. It's like basically sitting in heaven, looking at all the people you killed,
and then asking them for forgiveness. And then to still give you a million dollars or a million
rent. Sure. It's amazing. Crazy stuff. I mean, I was crazy talking about this. I just seem like
the psychophilosopher. No, it's cool. It was way too hard and it was too much for some.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's so interesting.
Dance of overthinking. Yeah, that can happen. Yeah, pretty easily. I feel like we could talk
about Survivor for a long time. But let's, I mean, there's a lot that we could talk about there,
but I'm sure that you have lots of like little stories and stuff like that. But
I'd love to get about another time. Yeah, yeah. No, I'd be very interested for sure.
So Survivor happens. You're coming out of that. You decide. And I think you may mention even on
an interview that you had to like turn down a position to do Survivor even get to like.
Yeah, I mean, was that my second time on I got accepted to do a specialist program
or microbiology at the time? Because this was in COVID was at its ripe. It was super ripe.
Everybody was talking about microorganisms. I was like, this is fascinating. Let me read
more about it. I was doing lectures. I was in the military at the time working for the
military. And I remember just going out giving public lectures on virology, microbiology,
just discussing how organisms work, how COVID's nothing more than just a virus,
just like every other virus. In fact, I just read a Lancet paper just today
that shows that September 2022, which is now, well, we're in October, but last month.
The most common respiratory viruses in South Africa have been rhinovirus, adenovirus,
and influenza virus was third. The COVID's not even in the top 10 at the moment.
I was trying to give this lecture to put some context into the situation because a lot of people
get very, very hyped when they hear something new. Novelty really creates chaos. And that's
exactly what happened with COVID. We really lost the idea that there are other viruses out there,
or high blood pressure and diabetes still exist. You can't sit at home and hide from the world and
then eat a bunch of cakes for the rest of your life. There are other killers out there. My
lectures were focused on that. And then I wanted to do microbiology, but then got this second
opportunity. I'll take survival. Sure. Yeah. When you're that big a fan, it's an easy choice.
A lot of doctors literally despise me. So not okay. Yeah. Who cares about that?
Yeah, right, right. Survivors only got, I mean, but if they came back to you now, would you do it
again? Yeah, 100 days. Are you just always in? Third time's the charm. I think. Yeah, right.
Third time's the one. I have to just play my card.
If we get a bit wiser, I need some wisdom. Wisdom helps. It's always useful. And then
at that point I came back and, well, it was often my first time on SurvivorWay, I started to
think about maybe starting a podcast. And I think that's where the journey started to take.
Okay. How'd that start? Yeah, I mean, I was in Otsun, which is a small town outside of Cape Town.
So it's about five hours away from Cape Town in South Africa. And I was doing my master's degree
at the time. And I started doing it in philosophy and ethics of mental health. And this took me
into a hugely different domain. As a doctor who's focused primarily on physical sciences, biology,
chemistry. When you do a philosophical degree and you write dissertations and you try and actively
argue certain points, you start to really realize how flawed a lot of your thinking was
while studying the topic you were studying. And that's exactly what happened to me,
because I wanted to be a neuroscientist. I wanted to be perhaps a neurologist or a psychiatrist. And
when I started this degree, I started to listen to the arguments or the counter-arguments of
physicalist theories or how we just make the assumption that the brain is merely a correlation
of this, I mean, the mind, sorry, is merely a correlation of this part of the brain. And I
started to really dissect this philosophically within the degree. Still very much physicalist at
heart, even currently. But I remember really thinking about it, thinking, right, I mean,
we can't just make these assumptions and assume it's correct. We can't, we barely know anything
about physics. I mean, we'll discuss metaphysical things. I'm sure I'm sure we're going to discuss
at this point. But when you think about the metaphysical reality and the fact that 99
points, whatever percent of the universe is dark matter, and we can't really even tell you what
that is, you have to really question your physicalist view. You can't make the assumption that the
physical reality is verticality or vertical truth. When you're asking yourself what is the truth
of your podcast and your YouTube channel, I mean, what is the truth? When you look, I mean,
when I look at you right now, I'm seeing photons of light hitting my retina,
trying to getting transduced, I mean, converting processing information, and then I'm getting
that back. That's not even happening right now. So when we think of temporality, we think this is
that right now. That's not this time that takes for the light to come by. It takes time to get
cortex, come back, get processed, memories come back in, flood in the last time I chatted to you.
And then I bring up this sort of vision of you. And that takes a long time.
Joshua Bach talks about that temporality and the ontology of reality is very blurry.
I call myself epistemologically, I call myself ontologically agnostic, but epistemologically,
I can tell you that certain things I know to not be true.
So if I had to say, one of the things would be, when it comes to my views on religion or God,
I'm ontologically agnostic regarding the origins of the universe, what's out there,
and what could be. I don't know fundamentally. I can tell you what I don't think is there.
I don't think that there's a man in the sky. I don't think that somebody can
tell you what to do, tweak it here or there. I actually don't even think that
deistic views are possibly true. You're always going to fall into that
infinite regress of who made the deist, who made that, and just keep going and going.
I think it's so much more complicated. I think that whatever the truth actually is,
is not something we're ever going to be able to understand. I don't think we have,
and I find it very, very arrogant that a lot of us think that we will gain access to this knowledge.
I think that the truth is not something to ever see.
You think the truth is something we'll never see, we'll never experience, you think?
Yeah, we'll never really, I mean, we barely experience reality. If you think of the optical
window on Earth, it's called the optical window because it's all we can actually see. It's all that
electromagnetic radiation that the light passes through, and it's all from ultraviolet to infrared.
We don't get anything more than that, anything less than that, and then some species can see
the ultraviolet rays, for example birds, and some can see infrared like snakes. We see everything
in between. We'll never see gamma rays. We never, ever see radio waves. I mean, they're always here,
but we don't see it. We see almost nothing, but we do experience something.
Why is that, and what is the case? That's primarily the reason for my podcast is
my views changed so much over the last five to ten years regarding my own beliefs. I was very much
a physicalist, hardcore materialist, not materialist in the sense that I like to buy fancy things,
in case anyone's watching this. The philosophical sphere, I mean, I'm not
materialist in the sense that I don't think everything's material. I mean, I thought everything
was material, sorry, and that the physical world was the objective reality and the
objective truth, but that changed completely. It slowly became very much emergentist. I thought,
okay, consciousness probably merges over time, and with my body solution, the podcast that I have,
the goal was to see if that's true at the time, and during that period, while doing my mental,
my master's in philosophy and ethics of mental health, I slowly became an illusionist. I started
to really question whether we really see reality for what it is, and illusionism became very
convincing, and that's Daniel Dennett, Keith Frankish, Michael Graziano, Joshua Bach. They're
very much illusionists at heart, and I found myself very convinced on the argument to be
very convincing. Galen Strossen calls it one of the stupid, one of the most idiotic or stupid
theories he's ever had in his life. No phrasing, but Galen's, I mean, I'm scheduled to chat to
Galen at some point. I mean, he's very, very prominent in the philosophy of my sphere, and
I mean, he's a mysterious, I mean, and I think at this point, I'm closer to that. I just don't
know, and I don't claim to know. It's too complex, it's too complicated.
Sure, but you still want to get close. That's the goal of this podcast, is explore this, and I often
close the podcast, I'm not sure if you noticed, but I often say thanks for taking us one step closer
to the mind of the solution. I never said thanks for providing me with a mind-body solution.
Yes. Because I don't think we're gonna get it. I think that this podcast is merely a stepping
stone to what could have been. That's interesting. But you still, I mean, we still enjoy the
investigation. We enjoy it. I love it so much. I mean, knowing isn't disheartening to me.
It makes it even more intriguing. I would love for someone to give me a theory that I cannot
refute, or that other philosophers or scientists cannot refute. Just completely construct information.
I mean, it's concrete info that I cannot dispute. And I think that's impossible. I don't think,
not me personally, but I think it's possible for someone to give that information where
someone else is not going to counter it with something else. Sure, yeah. And I agree, I mean.
There's so good theories out there. Yeah, I'm with you. Yeah, there's so many
interesting theories, interesting people to talk to. And even sometimes, I feel like
even if a theory is wrong, the process of going through and thinking through it
can lead you to some insights that you'll apply somewhere else. You know, it's not like all or
nothing. And just thinking back, my channel is called The Truth. I think the closer to truth
is already taken. I don't know if you've ever seen that. So I was like, ah, shit, I can't, I can't.
Lawrence Kuhn took that from you. Yeah, he's great. And he's lovely. I mean, his interviews are
awesome. One of the people that I wanted to curate by content and sort of align it with his size,
he sort of show. That was why she got into television was I try wanted to actually host
something like that. That was the main reason I went down down the route. Okay. Oh, now I'm
we're pulling stuff out here. We're like, okay. So when I started thinking, okay, if I start here,
I could end up doing a closer to the truth type. So cool. One day I might be able to do this. And
it never happened. Unfortunately, I tried to approach the South African Broadcasting Commission
with many ideas about this, but they felt that the niche audience
is. Yeah, it's a real, the audience size. I don't know, I feel like there's a hunger for it.
I mean, clearly, you know,
but it is tough, you know, it's like how accessible can you make it to people like
some folks have an interest in it and they don't maybe perhaps they don't have the
educational background to sort of like get there, you know, there's one of the things I try to do
with some like explainer videos is provide a lot of visualizations to the point where like,
if someone is interested but can't quite get there, the visuals can kind of get them closer,
you know, it can kind of be like, okay, it's kind of building and maybe, you know, they return to
the video a year later or the topic a year later, and their mind has had time to think it, you know,
think it through in the back of their head, they return, oh, I kind of get that a little bit closer,
right. So there's like a lot of different ways that we can help teach people and get them.
And I was watching your videos and I think that that you do a great job of doing that because
I mean, you say you're starting out, but I mean, the way you're able to edit your videos and get
them all into such as succinct and detailed manner, it's pretty it's pretty epic. I find it quite
enjoyable to watch. Thanks, man. I will never tire here in that. Thank you so much. That's really
quite a nice binge. Oh, nice. That's why I want that session time, baby. Get it up there. I will
say too, though, I haven't considering a rebrand and maybe like true enough, instead of the truth,
you know, but then I feel like the association might be that it's not good that people are like,
it's close, not really good. Really? Yeah, but I do think, well, that's something that we can talk
about, maybe jump into Hoffman a little bit, which is your most popular video so far. And I've
covered him. Well, just to spin a speed truth there on my channel, this idea of like, satisfying,
this idea of like, good enough, true enough, right? I can't remember which philosopher it was,
Schopenhauer maybe, who said like, the truth is just what's true enough, you know, you have to just
accept the limits and move on with your life. And you know, you can't, because otherwise, I mean,
you can really easily, and I know I've been there in my life at times, where you get into this like
existential nihilism about it, where the weight of it, the fact that you can't get there, weighs you
down so much. And I've even had friends over the years who have been in that situation as well.
And it's a tough spot to be in. Like, it sounds like, yeah,
I've been as well. I think that when you question too much, you can take you down the rabbit hole,
right down there to a point where you just think there's no way out.
What is the purpose of this? Why am I here? It's like, you're not even a speck of dust
on a stage. This place is just not about you. That's what it can take you towards. When you
really start digging deep, what is this universe? Where are you? That existential nihilism is very,
very easy to fall into. And I've been there. But then you find things that can bring you back up.
I don't know how you managed to do it. Do you want to share that with me?
I would. Yeah, if you'd like to hear, I want to hear what you kind of touched on,
and I think quite a bit at the beginning. I had that kind of period during college
between my junior and senior years for about a year where in hindsight, I didn't realize it was
like my first oppressive period where every day I woke up and all I could think about was,
does God exist? Like, what is going on here? Metaphysical questions, right? Like, what do I do?
And I was a very religious person growing up, and it was partly due to my folks and my family,
Catholic, go to Mass every Sunday. So I was kind of instituted, but I took the ball in high school
and went running on my own too. It was something that was very significant to my life and my identity,
and I believed in it wholeheartedly. I mean, you know, all the way through, and I led retreats,
and I was very religious, and then I got to college, and I went to Brown University, which is,
you know, a very liberal place, super different than what I was used to going to Catholic school my
whole life growing up, and that just, you know, that religious tendency, that conservative tendency
crashed into that world, and it was very difficult, especially at the beginning,
but then slowly I started to open my mind to other ways of thinking, and then,
yes, at some point I thought, how can I ration my way to the, yeah, to the core, right, to the truth?
And I wrestled with it for like a year, I mean, every day. It was like really weighing me down,
and at the end of that period or so, between my fall and spring semesters at college,
I just threw my hands up, and I was like, I don't know, I can't, I have to be agnostic,
I can't choose, because what I was also finding was I was like getting to my, I was kind of
like logically trying to get to where I already was, you know, I was like, oh, let me, because
it's comfortable, and there's a lot of good reasons to, I'm not anti-religious, by the way,
I'm very, you know, whatever works for people, you know, very open to it, but I just had to
let that go, and you hinted at it before too, it's scary to be like, you thought you had,
you had this feeling like you had the support that everything was going to work out, that,
you know, a guiding principle, and then you're in the void, you know, you're by yourself,
you have only yourself to rely on, and your relationships with other people, of course,
in the world, but yeah, that was the period of, yeah, the darkness, and then I just,
a certain amount of acceptance that just wasn't going to get there by rationality alone.
Yeah, it's one of those strange feelings you feel, like I said, I felt super free at the time,
and I mean, that didn't last very long, it was, it quickly deteriorated into this
downward spiral of trying to search, I mean, what is the point of this,
what, doing this, I mean, you start asking yourself some dark questions,
but then you slowly fall in love with certain things again, and you start to,
and you start enjoying the chase, I mean, that's pretty much what you're doing now with the truth,
you're trying to find it, and you might not think you will, you might think you get close enough,
true enough, but same goes for me, I mean, I'm all about the journey at this point,
it's not about finding the mind-body solution, I mean, the mind-body problem is, to me,
my favorite problem, philosophically, it is what I live for at this point,
I mean, it's become pretty much my identity at this point, but the mind-body solution is something
I don't think we will find, not at least in my lifetime, but I think that trying to find the
solution or getting people to discuss it and have this discourse and communicate, I mean,
the fact that we're discussing it right now, I mean, it's pretty cool, it's so cool to know
that there's so many people out there who want to talk about this, and when I started the podcast,
I was so surprised because I initially intended on not doing any sort of active
marketing or trying to promote the podcast or doing anything, and I haven't, it's just grown
very, very naturally, a lot of people have been coming to messaging me, emailing me,
making contact very naturally, and it's pretty cool because it seems like people are longing for
this information, they want to see this or listen to this discourse, and I think that time has come,
and podcasting has given us this opportunity where finally the deeper questions can be
spoken about without sounding like your biggest psychotic episode.
Sure, absolutely, and I want to touch on one thing that interests me, and it brings me to
your interview with Chomsky, because you asked him about, I think, the mind-body problem or
something or consciousness in general, and he said something to the degree that it didn't really
interest him that much. He wasn't that interested in consciousness, and I actually, oh sorry, go
right ahead. Can I continue, I'll touch on that. I was going to say, when he said that,
I don't want to say I agree with him, but it interests me, it's like an interest of mine,
of course, I mean, it's like a core question, right? Like, what we have access to is this experience,
that's what we have, that's, you know, the big problem, but I do think it's interesting that,
like, to me, the question is like, what is reality? You know, what is every, you know,
everything, and including consciousness, right? And so, I want to hear, I don't hear why it's
the most interesting problem to you, like, yeah, if you could. I think, so I agree with you, I think
that fundamentally, I actually care more about what reality is than consciousness. So, the essence,
I'm on the same page, but for me, the issue comes with the fact that you can have a theory of
consciousness that does incorporate reality within it. So, Donald Hoffman, for example,
a lot of panpsychist theories and certain idealist theories, reality can become part of consciousness.
So, because it's the only thing except for reality that you can sort of bring into the topic,
and the fact that I studied medicine and did a master's in mental health and did psychiatry,
obviously, I came towards it with a bias towards the mind. But overall, I still came more about
what reality is. And I agree with Om Chomsky, because what he said was that the more important
question is what is reality? And I agree, because the issue is that we don't know what reality is.
So, physicalist views don't really hold much weight, particularly today when people are showing
that you don't know what physics really is. I mean, quantum physics says one thing,
general relativity says another thing. We're struggling to coincide these two theories,
and then there are physicists out there that are showing that spacetime. I mean, Donald Hoffman
says this all the time, and it says time is doomed, and then you have to start wondering,
why are they saying it? It's such a weird statement to hear a physicist say spacetime.
That would freak someone out who doesn't take, I mean, if you take physics seriously,
you take predictions and mathematical calculations seriously, you have to start pondering why would
someone with such a vast intellect and knowledge base say something so absurd, maybe because it's
true, maybe because it's the truth. Maybe. So, for me, that was a big part of this whole thing.
I started to wonder, okay, if we're not seeing reality for what it is, that's why I went down
this illusionist route. I was like, okay, why are we so obsessed with this question in the first
place? Because I know David Chalmers calls it the metaproblem of consciousness. The fact that
we're so obsessed with this problem of understanding consciousness in the first place is the hard
problem. He first labels it the hard problem, and then he labels it the metaproblem. Why do
you want to know this? What's the problem here? And I started to realize it's because human beings
have the tendency to put themselves in a slightly higher pedestal than every other species. We've
done so for many years. In my dissertation, I have one line where I said the same way that Copernicus
took us out of the center of the solar system, the same way that Darwin took us out of the top of the
food chain, illusionism will do the same for consciousness. It'll take us out of this idea
where we think we have this essence or this Ion Vitale-like soul, for example, that only we have,
only human beings tend to possess. For some reason, we love to put ourselves up there.
And then over time, I did the podcast, and I started to question illusionism, so I couldn't
say how that happened. It all just keeps changing. I'm so agnostic at this point. I have absolutely
no idea what I think. It actually can cause mental distress, to be honest.
Still. And I spoke to, I mean, Kurt, Jay Mungle from Theories of Everything, we were discussing
how, I mean, our podcasts are very similar. And we were talking about how the more we investigate
these topics and these phenomena, the more you start questioning your own mind, reality,
and it really can get to you. It can drain you. It can almost put you into, it can either make
someone very schizophrenic, psychotic, in the sense that they start to lose touch with reality.
Psychothermia, for example, is not really a split mind. It's more of a split reality.
You start to misinterpret information a lot. So let's say, give you an example, if Donald
Hoffman comes to me and tells me that spacetime is doomed, and he shows me the physics, teaches me
why, I mean, I could, at some point, just lose touch with reality altogether. I could, at some
point, just not care anymore. And what's the point in waking up and going to work anymore, if this
is not, that's a poor example. I feel like I've given you a better one. But the fact is, if someone
gives you something like that, if someone tells you, look, the sun doesn't really exist. And what
if the sun was my favorite thing to wake up to? It can affect your mind. So we were talking about
how these theories of everything and these theories of consciousness, in my case, the more you dig
deep, the more you delve into it, and the more confused you get, the more you lose touch with
reality. And that's what it's like to be schizophrenic, in a sense, is losing touch with
reality. The sensory stimulation versus your interpretation of what's going on starts to
change. And I know Kurt spoke to Carl Friston about this, and I want to ask Carl Friston about
this as well. He's one of the most cited neuroscientists on the planet, if not the most cited
neuroscientists on the planet. And he often talks about it as well. I mean, we take in prior
information and make posterior conclusions regarding what's going to happen. So for example,
if you're a musician and I'm a painter, you and I both enter a lecture at Brown one day.
The first thing you might notice in the lecture theater is a lecturer's guitar, whereas I might
notice the artwork on the walls. So the fact that we both enter the same room discussing the same
thing while heading there with the same intention, the moment we enter, sensory stimulation enters
our listeners, completely changes the way we'll experience this lecture from the beginning to the
end, because the prior information dictates the posterior conclusions. So a lot of neuroscience
is very intriguing in that regard, and starting to show a lot about how we really think. And we
have heuristic adaptations to the world. So we take shortcuts a lot of the time. We don't really
see anything for what it really is. And the brain has to make assumptions. So we have to guess
estimates, basically, of what's really happening out there, caricatures of the reality. And to me,
that's a big problem, because that means trying to find the truth in a world that is a caricature
or a cartoonish version of what reality might be. It's going to be a very difficult task.
Yes, absolutely. Shoot, that's so much done back. I want to,
well, let's talk, we want to talk about Donald Hoffman a little bit, because you spoke with him.
We actually just chatted the other day, and we're scheduling around two.
We're discussing one of his new papers as well. And he's here to publish it, so I can't chat about
the paper. But ideally, Donald is such a great guy, such a kind. Yeah, I mean, he's so, so
misinterpreted. And that's something I love about this podcast that I'm doing, is that I get a guy
whose theory is so perhaps outrageous to so many other people, and then try to incorporate that
theory into and make it understandable to an audience that might have misinterpreted it from
the get go. And so my goal is never to actually debate. The goal is to always try and understand
their point of view. And even if I disagree with it, try my best to actually defend their view
during the podcast and play the devil's advocate every now and then, but then slowly try and portray
their view in a way I think I would have liked them to have articulated it to me, and the way I
can tell that the viewers from their comments want to hear it, because obviously read the comments
and try and determine, okay, what are people saying when they do an interview with someone else?
What are they asking? And I try and incorporate those questions as well. So it's very well
researched and refined, and I try and ask very informed questions, not always the best. And
so I mean, we're all learning, we're all trying our best. But with Donald, it was so easy. I mean,
he's so courteous, he's so kind. He really liked the fact that I did do that, but I took the time
to try and understand his theory, because he told me after the interview was done, that he'll be
willing to come on the show whenever he wants, whenever I ask him, which is a really great thing
to know. So his theory is so incredible. So he speaks about how he was doing the calculations,
and he decided to calculate what are the odds that if fitness payoffs or trying to determine how
we would have to survive within the reality we live in, based on the information we receive
by the retina, by the auditory system, proprioception, knowing where we are, etc.
What are the odds that we would see reality for what it is? And he did the calculation, he sat on
with a bunch of other physicists and mathematicians, and they came up to the amazing, astonishing
number of zero. Probability of seeing reality for what it is would be zero. And he said,
he had to sit down, paraphrasing, but he had to sit down and just take a breather. And when he
told me that, I remember also, it's crazy, it's zero. Not even one. Not even point zero one,
yeah. Well, I think it's the, it approaches zero at the limit or something. It's like,
if it goes to infinity, if you have an infinite number, it's like zero. It's just a zero point
zero zero something. And yeah, really, really concerning. I was like, wow. He's not the only
one. Firstly, I asked one of my friends, who's a physicist, and he heard in South Africa, I asked
him, what are your thoughts on space time? And do you think universe is real? I remember him just
saying, no. And he said it's so, he was just kind of like, no. What do you mean? He said, no, if you
do the calculations, you sit down, you actually think about it, reality is nothing like what we
think it is. Then you have to really ask yourself, okay, physicists are really starting to take
this idea seriously. Here comes a guy who's doing that and then adding another theory to it.
So he's done two things. One is he's sort of shown us that space time is not fundamental
the way we see it. But he takes it further, which is where a lot of people then disagree with Don.
And a lot of other neuroscientists and philosophers of consciousness disagree with Don,
is where Don decides to make conscious agents a fundamental aspect of consciousness. And this
is the issue where he has to not fight a battle. The introduction of conscious agents is always
an assumption that we have to make. I mean, anyone who makes a theory has to start off with a basic
assumption. And if you introduce conscious agents as the basic assumption, one problem is you
introduce conscious agents, which is not necessary, but the second problem is you always need two
conscious agents, according to Don's theory. And that makes it a lot more difficult because now
you've basically doubled the problem. And a lot of even idealists, because Don fundamentally
conscious realism, which is the name of his theory, is a form of idealism. And a lot of idealists
disagree fundamentally with the fact that he introduces conscious agents. Yeah, I mean, Don's
theory, I mean, I'm never going to do justice to it by discussing it. But I can tell you one thing,
it's far more complicated than what I just said. Oh, yeah, absolutely. I've gone down the rabbit
hole. I've read most of, I mean, most of his paper, like, yeah, a lot of his papers. I mean,
I've read his book, and I think about 20 different papers of him and his colleagues,
Singh, but the others. But she's so it's very intricate. These guys have spent time, years,
effort, reducing the wonderful mathematics they have. Yeah. And I did, I mean, I've done a three
part series on just fitness beats truth. So not even getting yet to I mean, interface theory
perception builds out of that pretty, I think, intuitively, but the conscious agents, what I
what how I describe it to people sometimes is like, and I'm not sure if Don would say it this way,
but most people assume that consciousness is like a bottom up process that like it forms from the
neuronal activity in the brain, right? Don's is like top down. Like it starts with consciousness
and works its way, you know, that way. That's, that's how I think about it. And I'm like, okay,
maybe yeah, I'm, I think I'm super interested in that idea. I'm most, I think I'm most convinced
by fitness beats truth, because there's a layer, there's something intuitive about it that just
when I first heard that his TED talk, six years, however long ago it was, I was blown away. All
they could think about for, you know, weeks, telling people about telling my friends, telling
family, oh my God, this is crazy. You got it. You got to get this. No one was interested.
Especially funny. One of the reasons why I started this channel was that I couldn't find
anyone in my social circles that cared about this stuff. Same. Same. You too. Okay, cool. We have
a related thing. It's like, how do you not think this is interesting? Come on, wake up. But
watch that TED talk. You're talking about the one with the blue shirt. Oh yeah, absolutely. I've
cut that one up quite a bit for my videos. I've like thrown in a lot of hero shots of him from
like below where it's him in the background. And I think it's incredible. Maybe this is really
first. I think it was, was he called again? I guess, I think he has two books, I think.
The Case Against Reality. Yes, Case Against Reality was the one. Oh yes, I had the hard cover
version. I think it's got a white cover instead of the colorful flower on the paperback version.
But I remember reading that and then I went straight into the rabbit hole. I watched the
TED talk. I started reading all his publications and just went in depth. So I was super excited
to chat to him. Yeah, I got to reach out to him. I mean, I will, at some point, reach out to him
and see if he wouldn't mind doing maybe. Yeah, I'll definitely do that. I'll actually direct him to
your three-part series. I'm sure he'll enjoy that. Oh, yes, please do. I would, I mean, dude, that
would be, that would be like a dream. I mean, to chat with him and let him know that I had a chat
yesterday and I want you to watch something. Tev. Oh my goodness. Thank you so much. That's
you're kind. I appreciate that a lot. I really do. I really, really do. Because I also, it's so
clear. I've listened to so many hours of his interviews. So clear. He's a nice guy. You can
tell, like, kind soul, like, yeah. So he emailed me. Yes. I think it was two days ago. He just,
I mean, this is like months after we last spoke. Well, a couple, probably weeks,
but it was just out of nowhere email. We just said, Hey, Tev, I've got a guest that I'd like
for you to possibly speak to. I mean, and he introduced me so much. So amazing. I'm super
keen to introduce to the audience of MindBodySolution. But I mean, it's one of those small
things that he does. I mean, just randomly thinking of me, sends me an email and says,
I think you do a great job at getting her views out. And I was like, yeah, thanks. Thanks, Don. This
is amazing. Awesome. That's great. So he's really, he's really cool. Yeah, yeah, it's great.
What was that? Very smart. Oh, I'm very intelligent. Absolutely.
Super kind. Yeah. Super kind. Yeah. Very misunderstood as well. Very misunderstood.
That's interesting. I guess whenever I've listened to him, he's in the context of like
an interviewer who's open to the idea. So I haven't heard, I guess I haven't like
come up against a lot of the criticisms, but I'm sure there are. I mean, it's an, it's,
you know, counter to what I also find kind of meta interesting about that, about him doing his career
is like, he kind of found the most potentially the most fit option for his career in terms of like
going against the grain, you know, broadly, that like everyone was approaching the idea
of the concept this way, the question this way. Why not go over here where there's a lot of space
to like grapple with these things. And maybe there's, there's like something really substantial
here. I think that there is. Yeah. I mean, he has that way of thinking because he never really
wanted, he never really took serious the idea that we could understand everything with the
perception we currently have. Yeah. And I think it's stuck with him throughout life. And I think
he wanted to figure out why he would think that. But I don't think he was ever prepared for the
outcome when he's maths told him it's zero. Well, it goes to zero. Apparently, he sat down and felt
faint. He felt, he felt ill. Like it's one of those feelings when you know that gut-wrenching
feeling when you know someone's in danger, or someone's about to break up with you. It's sort
of that deep sensation that he felt. He describes it very perfectly. And I think, yes, I can imagine
if you are someone who understands the maths and physics, and you get, and you literally figure
out for yourself that spacetime is not what you think it is. It's both got to be pretty, pretty
horrific. Absolutely. And you've gone down the rabbit hole of, because usually when he refers
to spacetime, Izumi talks about Nima Arkani-Hamed's Amplitahedron. Yeah, that's something I have to
say. It's very confusing. I mean, it seems like a mapping.
It's the Harvard lectures. I think it's Harvard lectures that he has out online. It's super
difficult to understand. I've tried. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think you've got to give it a go every
few months, space repetition, and then slowly figure it out. Yeah, I think that's a good, I
agree. It's sort of like you take what you can handle, go to your, go to the edge of your understanding.
And when it's just too incomprehensible, you're just kind of like, I'll return back to it. And
that's the great, great thing about doing that. I'd love to hear too, just a touch on one of my
favorite interviews that you did with Lisa Feldman Barrett. Yeah. Fantastic. I never, I had not come
across her before. And lovely. I mean, fantastic interview. I really loved it. Yeah, it's really
cool. She's so fun. And we actually, I'm scheduling a lot of round twos at some point.
And because there's so many things we could discuss, and we just don't have the time a
couple of times. And she's, I remember reading her book as well. And I thought, this woman is so
intelligent. It's, this is such a great book. And I couldn't, I had to have her. And she was one of
the first people I thought of putting onto the show. She might have been number one, but Michael
Graziano helped me out during my dissertation. So kind. And he came to me, I mean, he replied
instantly and helped me out to formulate my theory of consciousness and what I was defending in my
dissertation and all the things I was doing. So I wanted my first kiss to be someone familiar
to me. Sure. And but she was the second, she was my next option. And right there. And I mean,
we had such a cool chat. She knows so much about particularly the emotional brain and hierarchical
Bayesian brains. She knows the same thing. Friston works on where you look at the brain as sort of
this Bayesian like organ functioning like a statistical organ is taking in prior information
and constantly producing posterior outcomes. It's very much like that. Then we also have to take
into account that we've always thought that the brain is similar to the current zeitgeist. So pumps
back in the day, you think the pump like system, you think that brain is sort of a hydraulic system
at some point. Every time the science changed or the industrial revolutions changed or the
electrical revolution changed, we slowly changed our theory. So very different. So that's interesting.
Because we do and you can't blame people for using like the most advanced technology to explain
the thing, right? And now, of course, it's algorithmic simulation, computational.
So it makes me think, oh, well, we're not even close, because we're just going to go the next
thing will be the next thing. And we're just going to keep using that. But what else can you do? I
mean, you can only do the best you can with the tools that you're disposable. So I don't blame
people for thinking that way either. That's the same reason why I say that it's, it's closer to
the mind body. So never go together. But too wordy. That's too wordy, closer to yeah.
And who knows, maybe sometimes we're taking a step further away.
So difficult to tell. Sure. Sometimes we've had like spirals of revolutions where we thought
something and then we've come back to it and then we've thought it again and we've come back to it.
You know, I mean, there was a time where people considered consciousness to be fundamental. And
over time it lost its edge. Now it's back. But panpsychists, idealists who think consciousness
is the primary reality. So we're going to go through these cycles quite a lot, I think. And
I think it's cool. I think it keeps the conversation flowing, keeps it going.
Hopefully we're alive long enough to see some progress being made. But neuroscience is doing a
lot. But it still doesn't help us figure out what reality is. Right. Do you have a
I know you're agnostic about this stuff, but do you have I know you're at least open to the idea,
but panpsychism, are you you're open to more open than perhaps most doctors, I would assume. But
do you think it's wrong? Do you think it's wrong?
Certainly people's arguments very convincing. You've got someone like Philip Goff who can
can articulate an argument very well. And very difficult to counter argue. It was several points.
But I do have certain points where I don't agree. I don't know. I would be less likely to call
myself a panpsychist. Even though I'm not even though I say I'm agnostic, I'm very much still
firmly more materialist slash physicalist than I am idealist slash panpsychist. But I'm also not
convinced by the physicalist materialist argument either. Yes, like this is this is where I was
talking about you start losing your mind. Because I mean, I believe this. And I think this, I think
my phone is real. And I know it's real. Then you think about what is an atom in 99.9% empty space.
And then I'm like, how is this even possible? Right. I'm not really touching the phone.
But I am touching the phone. Yeah. So it's a weird world we live in. It's a strange universe.
And I mean, I said this, I mean, you spoke about Tony, there's talk and I mean, I call ourselves
a conscious conglomerate of cells assembled by atoms manufactured by molecules designed by DNA
forged by fusion via stellar supernovae. I mean, this is a crazy story. I've got a couple lines
there as well. I mean, this was part of my dissertation, organized by organelles,
said this cool alliteration of lines. The story of how we were made is so much more complicated
than any story we've ever told so far. I mean, when you think about every religious text and the
story of how we were made, I mean, 6,000 years or the Boomba people in Congo, I mean, we Boomba
spits out the earth. I mean, we've got so many different stories. Krishna, my own cultural
stories, my religious stories. Sure. Then you think about the actual one that science has told us.
I mean, stars had to die in order for us, in order for atoms to forge into hydrogen. Hydrogen atoms
that provide to form helium, really carbon, oxygen, everything nitrogen, and it just goes on.
And slowly they all come back together at some point. And then you find these single-celled
organisms, I mean, about 4.8 billion years earth, 13.8 billion year light years across universe.
I mean, it's quite crazy. It's an incredible story. It is, yeah. And it's so convincing. And yet,
we don't know what dark matter is. We don't know what 99% of this amazing story is. So it's amazing
and still so incomplete. In fact, it's just incomplete. It's not even, the story is so,
probably so untrue. And but yet to me, it is the story I go with. It is the story I'm most convinced
by. And if I give a lecture on what is reality, it's the story I will tell. So yeah, if you had to
give, put me in a box, I would still be very much physicalist, yet with very counter-intuitive
intuitions about my own intuition. Sure. Open, always open to... It's very, very
agnostic. Yeah. I think that's the way to be. Why be stuck with one model when you, you know, you
have to, you have to accept things at a certain point to live your life, you know, to get by and
do the things you want to do. But then, yeah, just keep your mind open and keep exploring while we
can. Can I ask what, which guest of yours has been the most surprising?
Oh, that's a very good question. Well, I've had some guests who, I mean, I've been idols of mine.
And I mean, I've loved neuroscience for such a long time. If, like astrophysics, archaeology,
I mean, medicine mostly because I wanted to somehow go into some sort of a neuropsychological
route. And when I was doing that, I mean, I had all these idols. Lisa was one of them.
Noam Chomsky, I've been such a huge fan. Of course, yeah. That's right. It was, to me, that was,
I felt like I'm interviewing a god. Yeah, he's a legend. I mean, yeah. This is a living legend.
He's 93 when I spoke to him. I have another interview I've just done with him that's going
to come out soon. There'll probably be 94 when it's out. I don't know. It's surreal to know this
guy is 93 and still cognitively engages with as an equal. I mean, it's phenomenal. As someone who
treats geriatric patients all the time, he has such a sharp mind. It's incredible because it shows
how well he's done over the years to consistently keep his mind up to date and active. And that's
what happens when you read and learn as much as you do as he's done over the years. I mean,
it's so easy to talk to him. So I think he surprised me the most for sure. I figured it would be
difficult, but it wasn't just floated. I would say the only thing that was was obviously, I mean,
Noam's getting a little older. So hearing you have to sort of speak a little louder into the
mic. That makes sense. If I thought more Patricia Churchland or someone I really enjoyed interviewing
as well, because when I was doing my dissertation, I came across a limited materialism and
her husband Paul Churchland is someone I also really admire. So the two of them are very cool
people who I've also looked up to for a while. There's also Rebecca Goldstein. I mean,
she's really cool. Steven Pink and his wife. I mean, the two of them are living legends.
Both of them. I mean, I'm going to chat to Pinker at some point as well. But it was so cool to have
her as well, because I'm a huge fan of the both of them separately and together as a couple. I
think they're pretty awesome. And a dynamic duo. Yeah, I mean, there's been so many. There's been
too many of them. And it's growing. I mean, I've got a lot lined up as well. So more is going to come
out. But I've taken a break. I was just on vacation. So if anyone's wondering why I've been
taking a little bit of a break, you deserve it, man. Where'd you go? Now, I just went on holiday
back home to the city of Durban, where my family's from. And yeah, just relaxed for a bit. It wasn't
like a full on trip overseas or anything. It was just, you know, that's great. That's lovely.
And what do you have? I mean, what do you have in store for the next, you know,
a few months next year for the channel? Like what kind of how often do you come out? Like,
what's your plan for it? Usually, it used to be around two weeks, every two weeks. But because
of I mean, I mentioned to you while we chatted before coming on the show, I mean, there's so much
political race in South Africa at the moment. They randomly cut the power. You cannot prepare
yourself. So we could be chatting right now. And they could change the stage of what's called
low chatting. That means they'll switch off the electricity in the entire country at a random
moment at any point of the day. And that's making it very difficult for me to schedule any interviews
with guests overseas, because obviously, I don't want to waste their time. And when the day comes,
because this has happened about five times already, we're about to cancel an interview.
It's very embarrassing, because you've got this guest, you've been looking up to your entire life,
and you finally have them. And then they just leave the fingertips of your palm and you're like,
oh, I almost interviewed so and so. I can't believe it. I mean, that happened to Noam and I the
first time. So Noam and I scheduled an interview, no chatting hit. Noam is so generous, because
he obviously knows a lot about South African politics. He said, don't worry, I completely
understand. I know exactly what's going on. And then we just rescheduled. So I mean, we've had our
number two. So I mean, Noam, you can expect Noam Chomsky one more time. You can expect Donald
Hoffman again. All the guests I've had on, you can possibly expect back. I'm going to try and
change the format a little at some point. I'm going to try and just update it. Perhaps, I mean,
I've been doing everything on my own at this point. It's my hobby, host, something I've been writing.
And I think I need to get together because it is a bit overwhelming. It does, it does get a bit
hard. I think I need to at some point invest more energy and time into building this. Because I
can tell that there is an audience that wants to engage and want this content. And I think I'm
going to do my best to provide it. I love it. I live for it at this point. It is my favorite thing to
do. When I talk to some of these years, I feel like I'm talking to childhood heroes, some of them
are current active heroes. And it's a real, it's actually pretty cool to speak to them as a peer.
I remember watching Noam Chomsky as a child, like legitimately a baby. I feel like I was a three
year old. Watching an old, huge, you know, the box TV sets, just watching him before it starts
to cut to that black and white fuzz. I remember he had this one chat with Michel Foucault,
just a sort of debate. He had one that it was televised here in South Africa. This was the
coolest thing I've ever seen. Foucault versus Chomsky just having a fun debate. And they both
understand each other. One speaking French, the other one speaking English, and there's no need
for a translator. They're just, I'm watching the subtitles just thinking, how are these guys so
intelligent? That's like upper, upper class. It's crazy. It's so cool. And you get to talk to them
and engage with them in this modern world. It's amazing. It is. It's so epic. I can only describe
it as awesome. It's just epic. Yeah, very fortunate. Yeah, I mean, even chatting to you right now,
I mean, this is like the content you've curated and created at this point. I mean, one of your
videos has over 300,000 views. That's that's pretty cool. Oh, yeah, the fourth dimension. Yeah. That's
thank you. Yeah, it does feel good that something kind of clicked, I guess. You can never know what
it's a funny thing is you don't know what's going to what's going to work. That's the nice thing.
You're having such a diverse and different part because it's that you can experiment. I mean,
your YouTube channel is able to actually do that, which is pretty cool. Yeah,
topic and go with it. Give some what they want. And I mean, I mean, that's the beauty behind
this platform is we get to showcase content that we love and that hopefully other people love
because clearly 300,000 views later, thousands of people have to have loved it too.
Yeah, it does feel good. It's cool. Yeah, it's hard to wrap your head around just like reality.
That is a lot. It is a lot. If you could, I mean, talking about Tesseract and a fourth dimension,
I mean, it is something people want. I mean, I mean, you've it's such a cool topic. It's one of
those things you want to hear about. It is a cool price. I mean, we're into it nowadays.
Yeah, me too. I mean, I did that one because I wanted to figure it out for myself. I didn't get it.
And I just kept on going back to it. And I think it only took me three or four days to put that
together from soup and nuts. Yeah, it wasn't too long. I mean, I was like, early on, I was like,
really hitting it hard and trying to pump those out quickly. But so that was cool that it just
kind of resonated with some folks. If you could talk to yourself at the beginning of you making
the podcast, you know, go back a year or so. I mean, if you give yourself one piece of advice,
what would it what would it be? Take your time. Don't edit it too much, which I
beginning I did. And then I stopped. Not very much unfiltered. It's almost just raw. I just
cut the beginning, cut the end and upload it as it is. I've learned to be less harsh on myself.
Just I don't like the way I've responded. If I go too much, I don't care.
It's more about getting their views out there. It's more about the guests at this point.
My best advice would be, take your time. Don't be too greedy for views or likes. It'll grow.
Start low, go slow. And it'll flow. I guess I want to keep going. Love it. Yeah.
But I mean, you're talking about a year ago. So what had happened was I started,
I uploaded four within, I think, a month or two. Sure. And then I completely quit.
And the first four were, I think it was Michael Graziano, Lisa
Feldman and Nicholas Humphrey and Keith Frankish. And then I stopped for months. So I think it was,
I think I stopped for about six to eight months. I gave up on the podcast.
Why? Because of that impatience. I thought like, is this actually going to get dark? What am I
going to do? I want to do this. And then I came across, I actually sent Kurt a message about this.
I came across Kurt's channel and I remember thinking, this is exactly what I want to talk
about and do. And he seems to be growing this very well. I might as well just continue.
And then so he actually inspired me to continue doing it. And then we've chatted since then.
He even made a video, I remember, where he mentioned me in his podcast.
He said that this is a very, so you made a video about underrated podcasts.
Yes, I think that's how I found it. Okay, great. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. I'm pretty sure that's how
I came out. I remember the day he posted that I got a lot of new subscribers and a lot of engaging
subscribers. It wasn't just subscribers if you subscribe and don't interact. I was getting
engagement, you know, those real comments that people arguing, having full on debates in the
comments that I started loving that I was like, this is great. So glad I continued because this
is exactly what I wanted to have. The people not talk about me, but rather talk about the theories
that I'm allowing these people to portray and discuss. So the goal is for them to portray them.
So yeah, by the way, Nicholas Humphrey is one of the guests I've had on the show. He's someone I've
read a lot of his books. I mean, one of his heroes was, I mean, Richard Dawkins, I mean,
he really loved these people that I loved growing up. And he was one of those people because he was
part of that group of biologists who sort of combined biology with psychology. And so he was
also someone who I really considered an idol. I have so many of his books on my shelf. I swear
about 10 different titles, 10 different books. I know I've got about 15 to 20 books, I think.
Yeah, I mean, I'm chatting to these people. I mean, Steven Pink, when we have our chat,
it'll be like me chatting to another hero. I've got about also about 10 plus.
So yeah, I mean, advice, just take your time and enjoy the process. And I am at this point. I mean,
I don't rush. If I don't post in a month, I mean, I haven't posted in time a month, and I'm okay.
I'm not really that stressed. I've got videos waiting. I'm not really panicking.
Sure. That's a great thing. I am worried about the viewers and the fact that they might be waiting
for the next video. And I take that into consideration. So I will post it based on that. But
pressure to post is no longer. But I think if you can afford getting a team to get
then you probably should take off some of that stress. Because it's a lot of work, editing,
post production, pre production, preparation, getting a logo, getting the podcast together,
trying to find a song, a theme, everything. It's such a it's so much. Yeah, I get it. Yeah,
you're talking pretty little choir over here. I mean, what would you give me? What's that?
Do you have to give me advice? What would you give me? Make my advice now? Oh, my goodness.
You're a content creator, call us. I mean, at this point, you've done
an extraordinary work. You can give me advice.
That's what's so kind of you to say. I think very highly of your work, too.
Huh. I have to think about I don't have anything off the top of my head. Honestly, I mean, if I had
Hmm. No, I have nothing. Wish if I think I promise if I think of anything, I will email you. I
promise. I promise if I didn't think comes to mind. Oh, yeah, please do. The bangle is
grow. We can't. I love when people give me constructive feedback because I mean,
there are times we have noticed things that you notice things you do. You sort of, you might
out loud go. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. That's fine. I think that's okay. Fine. Until you find like five comments
in the video where you're like, why does this? Why does the host keep humming? And then I'm like,
guys, you need to relax. It's a conversation. Yeah, calm down. Yeah, yeah, it's totally fine.
Calm down and just enjoy the content. Not perfect. Neither are my guests and they don't
claim to be either. So a lot of my effort actually goes into her making sure that the guest
is taken care of because the last thing I want is for them to say something politically incorrect
that might get them into trouble, which I think a lot of people try to get for click bait. And
I think that's something my guests have noticed. And that's why they want to come back is
you make them feel comfortable, which you've done so very, very well so far. And
I'm sure you'll continue to. We're going off the rails, baby. We're taking this to crazy town.
Not a good start, but I think one of the things he told me at the end was, I mean,
where he comes from, it's good to actually go in detail and dissect me. He wants me to. So for
round two, he actually wants me to play devil's advocate as much as I possibly can. And I said,
okay, I can do that. I choose the peaceful route. Yeah. Yeah. If you want the devil, we can bring
him out. I mean, it's always good to make sure the guest feels comfortable. So my advice would be
take your time, go slow and make sure the guest is always comfortable. I mean, in this type of
podcast setting. Yeah, sure. Yeah, absolutely. And I think that's as well as what I was trying
to do. So I'm glad that that it came through. So if we can, and also just to like, just reminded
me something about, I'm so glad you didn't, you came back and that you didn't abandon the channel.
I mean, yeah, because I get it. I mean, it's probably so many creators go through the same
thing where you try and you put all of yourself into the work and you see nobody watching it.
And you're like, what is this? But it was, Joseph Campbell said something to the degree of like
when you found your passion, you find the thing that you want to do.
He's like, be willing to suffer for about a decade at least in pursuit of it. Like if you're not
willing to give yourself over, that's a lot of time. I mean, obviously not everyone has the
resources at the time, you know, you have to make these trade offs, you know, for your passion,
sometimes with the demands of life and the things that come at you. But on the side, if you just
keep on going and you love the process, you know, like you were mentioning before,
all the things that it takes to do this well. And I was talking to somebody last night about this,
like a content creator, and he said to like, you know, as soon as you can, as you can offload
this stuff, certain parts of this you have to, because you know, you need to be able to focus
your time and attention on other stuff. But I mean, I'm so curious, I like learning all these
things. Like, and I would like, I think it's interesting. It's like, let's go into it, right?
Maybe not now editing stuff as precisely after a while, you're kind of like, God, I wish this was
over. But initially getting in there in the project, like, I get into Final Cut, and I'm moving
stuff around, I get into flow, I lose hours of time, flow right by. And it's like, that's why,
you know, that's one of the reasons why I got into this is to lose yourself in the process. So
I completely agree. I mean, I also came back because that is something I missed, actually,
at the point I was thinking about it. I mean, I loved doing it. And why am I letting the fact
that people aren't enjoying it as much as I thought they would affect the fact that I love
doing it. So I just came back because I enjoyed so much. I mean, even just just having the
conversations, even editing it, I love listening to it, because I'm obviously relearning it.
Reabsorbing the answers the person has given me. And you're right, you get into that flow state
and you start editing, you can quickly chop, paste. I've made my life so much easier by just
starting it, cutting the beginning, cutting it and just uploading it raw. So I've taken a lot
of hassles. Yes, there's something the guest has said that they really didn't like, perhaps
wanted to be cut out, I will go through and cut it out. Other than that, it's very much raw uncut
footage. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll probably do something. I mean, after this, I'll probably do
something similar in terms of because this is such an enjoyable conversation from my end.
And I hope you hope you enjoyed it as well. And you and I mean, your story too.
It's just so perfect because you really and you're you're young guy, you're 29 years old,
right? I think you mentioned so and you've come around already, you had this call to adventure,
you, you know, this interest, this passion that's always been there. And then you went into the
chaos of, you know, med school and 30 hour shifts to then doing the TV media hosting stuff,
survivor, you've got, and now you're integrating so much of your different experiences.
You know, it's like two or three dimensions of, of things that you're bringing together
with this podcast. On top of your, you're still practicing medical doctor, right? I mean, on top
of that, you know, you have, and that's, I think, I think something beautiful too is that your day
to day practice, you know, that work that you do informs the podcast in an angle that you don't
really get that perspective from so many people. So it's just, you made it so easy for me because
it's a perfect journey, you know, it's coming through. And yet there's still more to come,
you know, I mean, you're going to go through that process again and again in terms of
that call, you know, to do even more and integrate even more of your experiences.
You know, thanks so much. I really appreciate it. It's, you're right. It's, it's this podcast is
pretty much me putting them all together into one part now, finally, being able to put everything
into one thing that I love so much. And it truly is that one, that place I go to zone out, this is
my hobby. This is something I love to do. And it, it feels like I'm reading because my favorite
thing to do is reading books. So when I'm doing a podcast with the guest, I know I've read all
their books, it feels like I'm reading a book again. And that's pretty, it's pretty cool.
It's the best feeling I can, I can't even explain it. It's just, it's real.
I'm sure it is because yeah, you take that written experience,
which is like in their psyche, it's like a part of them, you know, it's the patterns that you're
getting through. And then you can actually engage mind melds, have the discussion.
It's pretty, it's pretty surreal. I must say. It's phenomenal. It's phenomenal.
What a time. What a time to be alive. Do you have anything else you want to say to the audience?
Anything else you want to ask me? Good luck to you, man. This is going to be a crazy adventure.
This is going to be something you're going to look back and think, I'm so glad I continued.
I'm so glad I changed the format now and then. I said, you said you're planning to do that.
More you engage and experiment, the better it's going to get. So I just want to say thank you
for continuing what you're doing. Thanks for the opportunity for chatting to me and finding my
story so compelling, compelling enough for you to interview me. I appreciate it. I had such a great
time firstly, but more importantly, I think you're going to do a great job. This is going to be,
this is going to be something I'm going to keep my eye on. Definitely going to probably have you
on the show at some point. Yes, I need time. Absolutely. I think we need to have a nice
discussion on the mind and why you think reality, why you think we're going to find the truth.
I didn't say that. Did I? I mean, I think we might get close.
True enough, at least. Yeah, just like a. Are you going to change the name? Are you
actually going to do this? You know what? I've done like a little bit of a the last few weeks,
kind of a restructure, figuring out the future of the channel. Like obviously this is one step in
that direction doing. I want to do like one interview a week. It's kind of something I'd
like to do it going into 2023, possibly like one live stream per week where I'm doing like a lecture,
kind of educational stuff on the fly, but pre-prepared, obviously to a degree.
So I think I'd be like a nice, you know, because you got to get the stuff out, you know,
you have to create a lot of stuff and put it out there and see what happens. So that's kind of
vaguely what I'm thinking about. And I have a lot of ideas for, yeah, a rebrand new structure,
sort of a new title, sort of, but it's up in the air. I don't know. And one of the cool things about
YouTube in particular, but also all the social media platforms really is that you can rebrand
on the fly. You know, you can like really change stuff. You don't want to do it too often. Obviously,
you confuse your audience, but. I've done that. So I, when I started this podcast, it was before
the four episodes uploaded right to that. I started the podcast, I think almost four months or so
before that, but it was a mental health podcast. I started it where I just did episodes talking
about mental health in general, just me speaking, no guests. I found myself slowly not really enjoying
it. I didn't like it. I didn't like what I was doing, was not enjoying the content. I stopped
completely revamped it, brought on guests and decided to make this a two way street
and have a look back. So I think if you're feeling that urge to change it up, change it up.
I am. Yeah. This, and this I think is good because very, I mean, I think it's honest criticism of
my own stuff. So myself in front of the camera, like I had like a teleprompter prescripted, you know,
every word exactly how I wanted, which I wanted for quality control, but obviously scale,
scale wise, it just really reduces your output. And then I watch myself now and it's, I'm so
stilted and stiff on camera. And I mean, I do think it's tough to read off a teleprompter, like
to do that with like, you know, fun energy, you know, you have years and years of experience
doing stuff like that. We got some training in that. Yeah. Yeah. You got some training. I did
that. So I look back and I'm like, Oh no, I look terrible, but whatever. You know, you got to just
accept it and say, you need to make stuff and mess up. And then you kind of,
I mean, as you said, it's Joseph Campbell says it all. It's the hero's journey. You were just
starting out. Yeah. It's just still, it's still happening. It's still, you're still figuring
it all out. Yeah, we all are. Yeah, absolutely. We're all on this journey and it's going to take
us all to very unique places. And I'm looking forward to see what yours is going to be. Likewise.
Yeah, absolutely. And just for anyone watching, you can find all, I'll link to all your stuff
to have in the description. So please go to his channel, subscribe, engage. It's a great
audience as well that you have built up and just from the bottom of my heart. I love it when you
guys, I'm saying engage to all the people who are going to watch this. I love it when you have your
debate in the comment section. I read it also. Yeah, me too. Yes. So for you to show us love,
I mean, whatever you want. Sure. Yeah, especially, you know, at our size, I read every comment. I
looked through them all. And I think sometimes, yeah, one time, some guy posted like, you got to
read this, like to everyone else, read the short story about the fourth dimension. And I read it
and it was awesome. He's like, I can't believe you read it. I was like, yeah, I'm a person. I'm
interested in this stuff. We're curious. We want to see what you guys have to say. Yeah, we really,
yeah, we really care. And we want to know what you want to hear going forward.
Stuctive critiques from the comment section. I mean, you'll have some loyal supporters who will
give you good feedback. And as your channel grows, I mean, I mean, we're both still growing. I mean,
as it grows, we're going to find people who are going to support the channel, eventually grow into
people who will become a part of the channel, because that's what happens with these channels.
They eventually get patrons, they get supporters, loyal customers who come here for a service.
And if you do them a disservice, they will let you know.
Yeah, absolutely. But I can tell that you're going to give them a good service. So keep up the
content. I can't wait to keep, continue following your journey. Absolutely.
I mean, I'm going to look forward to watching yours very attentive.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate your time.
I had such a great time. Thanks so much for the opportunity and I can't wait to see how this
comes out. See, me too. Thanks.